(upbeat music)
All right, I want to encourage
you to try do this one yourself.
Take the currency conversion project that we did and
duplicate it, and try to convert it to modules.
Welcome back
let's duplicate the currency conversion once.
So, duplicate,
we'll call that 78
dash currency converter modules refactor.
Open that up and I'm going to get rid of the finished
version, just put it into money JS.
Delete that
and we open up our index.js
and we want to convert this to a module.
So, type equals module, so now money.js
is going to be our entry point.
And let's take a look here, so we got a bunch of selecting,
we've got an endpoint, we have rates by base, which is
needed to store the data,
then we've got our currencies,
okay, then we've got our generate options function,
we've got our fetch rates,
which needs the endpoint,
we got our convert, format currency, handle Input.
So we've got we got one handler here.
We've got format currency,
which is library function.
We got convert,
that's a library function.
Fetch rates, that's a library.
Libraries,
like this is core functionality
to our application.
And then we've got
generate options.
That could either be library
or maybe called a helper,
or a util.
And then we've got some data of the currencies.
So, let's get going.
I'm not going to do any folders for this one,
I'll show you how I would approach this
with just flat files.
So, let's
make a currencies.js.
And let's take all this
and paste it in there.
This is a big enough that I would give it its own file.
Export default currencies.
Okay, now we need
generate options.
I think that's a util,
I'm going to put that in utils.
So make a new file called utils.js,
take that out,
paste it in here,
and we'll do that as a named export.
Then I'm going to make a
lib
.js file
that's going to contain fetch rates,
convert,
format,
ah, format is more of a util, I think.
So just want to move over
convert and fetch rates for now.
We'll put that in our lib.
And we'll export async function fetch Rates.
Export
convert
good.
Format currency, that's a util.
Let's put that in utils.
Okay.
We've got handleInput,
that's a handler.
So let's make a new file here.
Call it handlers.
It's an event handler so put it in there,
export that,
and then we got
our generation.
Which we do on page load
so initialization and then we listen for everything.
Okay, okay.
Lets just start going one by one
and see if we want to move these out or not.
I'm actually kind of curious how we will solve this one
which is because it catches and it gets updated each time.
So I'm going to go open up my
index.html
in my live server.
Lets go error by error.
Generate options is not defined.
Okay. Well we'll put that in utils,
so we'll simply just import it.
Currencies is not defined
that needs to be past generate options.
Okay so, import
currencies from
currencies.js
The requested module currencies
does not provide and export named currencies.
Okay, lets go into, Oh! Because its a default export.
So it doesn't need the curly brackets.
Okay, handleInput is not defined.
All right we'll import
handleInput from
you noticed I don't put spaces there?
That's just because I'm using prettier
and it just puts it in there for me
that's nothing to do with how it works.
Lets from handlers.js
what else you got for me?
Here we go.
Reference error convert is not defined
that's happening in hanlers.js line two.
Go into handlers.js okay.
So, Import.
Convert
from
lib
refactor lib, oh lib.j,
I keep forgetting to put js at the end
that's because the bundeler which I do all my coding in
doesn't need it.
What's next?
From input. Okay so from input to select to
to El
format currency. Lets get that out of the way.
Import
format currency from
that is from utils.js
All right, so all of these elements
now need to be selected
and rather than pass them in
ill put them in their own module I think
so lets make a new file called elements.js
and I believe we just these ones
cut and paste them in here.
Oh, one other thing that people might often do
is instead of just using
document.querySelector for all of these,
they will pass in
an app
instance,
much like we did with the gallery
like this,
and then look inside that for all of these things.
So you would have app.querySelector
app.querySelector for each of these.
So, and that allows you to have multiple on the same page,
just like we did with our slider
and our gallery.
For this I think its fine
so export those
and from select is not defined
so we import from input, from select
to select and to El.
Import those
that comes from
elements.js
from select is not defined in money.js
Okay. Oh so we also need from select and to select
on page load
so we import them again
that's the beauty of modules
if you need them in multiple files,
you can import them into multiple files.
Elements.js
All right, there we go.
Rates by base. I think this is going to be the tuff one.
So end point and rates by base.
They need to go into our endpoint.
Yeah they need to go into our lib.js
so we just take this out
and go into our lib.js
paste them at the top
and, oh! This is actually not
not as hard as I thought it would be
I think it just works!
Should we try it?
So CAD
it just works! Okay.
(laughs) I thought that was going to be harder
because we were updating a variable,
but then, the beauty of modules scope
is that inside of this module,
I can't create this rates by base object
and then we update it from within one of these functions.
And even though we're calling the convert from another file,
it still knows about the scope of this file
much like a scope of a closure would be.
And we can access it no problem,
and that the beauty of
you don't have to pass it in or anything like that
you just reach for it on there.
The only gotcha about these modules is,
if you're on the server,
this will be shared by every request that comes in,
which may or may not be what you want.
I certainly have had oopsies on the server before
where I was storing data in here
and it was being overwritten by multiple users
and if that's the case,
you have to get into a sign called sessions,
or scope that to each function,
but in our case, and in most cases,
I would say this is absolutely fine.
So, that is how I converted it
we got a whole bunch of different files
all of them seem pretty manageable.
And that's it.
Well actually one more thing is
you might even
take this
and you might put this into a like a boot strap
or an app init function
and what do I mean by that,
well, you might go and
take all of this,
all of this happens when the page loads
this code runs
and that is fine,
but sometimes you want to delay running
of what happens on page load
and if that the case,
then what I would do is
I would just take all of it
and go into my lib
and ill make another
function
called init
or bootstrap
or start or something like that
or go
and then paste all that code in there
and then we have to import the select and to select so
we'll go to the top here
import
from select to select from
elements
.js
and then we go
and now
like nothing works,
there's nothing here,
the app has not started.
And then what you can do is
just like start the app.
And we just import
init
from
the lib folder
file
and then just start it.
Init.
Now we got one more error here
generate options is not defined.
That is in lib.js
so go here,
okay and,
to do that we just import it
do you see how you
always have to import if in the file that you need it
so generate options from, that is from utils.
Currencies, we also need currencies
so actually we can probably just take
this
yeah we need all three of these
we need to just move over
to
our lib js
and now its giving me grief
about this one
dependency cycle
detected
oh I think its whining at me because
our handlers includes, requires convert
from there
and then
our handle input requires lib
so they require each other
and I guess you could end up,
the app works fine,
but I guess you could end up in the situation where
they require each other and then forever
and then nothing just spins out of control.
So if that's the case,
maybe here, lets do one more.
One more file.
Lets call in init.js
And then just stick all of that
in the init js
so take that out,
put it in here,
then we'll grab
all of these,
and paste that at the top.
Then we'll go back to our money js
and we'll import init form init js
there we go, everything is working just fine.
You could even go one step further
and not run this code until somebody clicks a button
or even hovers over it
we could just select the app.
So what does this thing have on it?
Div with a class of app
so, document
dot query selector
app
and we'll say app dot add event listener
we'll mouse enter
and when that happens,
we'll run init.
And we will tell that
once is true
so we don't initialize it once every time someone mouses in.
So there we go.
See look how select currency and as soon as I mouse in
boom! That app initialized and
it populated all those values for us
and it looks like it still works great.
So that another way to do it.
You can start getting splitting hairs
I guess we don't need this as well,
you can start splitting stuff like crazy
because all we've really done here
is now our entry point
has almost nothing in it
and we've just put it in a separate file.
Is that okay? Absolutely.
Some people like their entry point
just have a very little code.
You could have certainly just put all of this code
in your money day js as well.
So, hopefully you learned a thing or two there.
Lets get into using bundelers.